=head1 NAME

run1 - Run a program once at a time

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<run1> [ C<-d> I<dir> ] [ C<-l> I<label> ] [ C<-w> I<sec> ] [ C<-k> I<sec> ]
     I<program> [ I<args> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is useful for keeping multiple copies of a program from
running concurrently.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 9

=item C<-d> I<directory>

Save lock/pid files in I<directory> instead of the default (~/.locks).

=item C<-l> I<label>

Use I<label> as the lock/pid file name.  The default is the name of the
program being executed.

=item C<-w> I<seconds>

Print a warning to stderr if the process with the lock has been running
for more than I<seconds> seconds.  The default is 86400 seconds, or one day.
Specifying 0 seconds disables warning messages.

=item C<-k> I<seconds>

Kill the process with the lock if it has been running for more than I<seconds>
seconds.  The default is 0, which disables this feature.

=item C<-s>

Try to get a shared lock on the lock file.  This is useful for nesting
calls to run1.  Say you have two scripts that can operate independently,
and another script that does the equivalent of the first two, in addition
to whatever other work it might do.  For example, a script that mirrors a
linux distribution ftp site.  One syncs only updates, the second syncs only
the distribution, and a third syncs the whole tree.  You might invoke them
like this:

    run1 -s -l mirror run1 mirror-updates
    run1 -s -l mirror run1 mirror-dist
    run1 -l mirror mirror-all

Since mirror-updates and mirror-dist get a shared lock on "mirror", they'll
keep mirror-all from running, but they'll run just fine individually.
While mirror-all is running, neither mirror-updates or mirror-dist will
run.

Note that currently -w and -k are ignored when using shared locks.  (This
may or may not change at some point in the future.)

=item C<-b>

Block (indefinitely) on the lock request.

=back

=head1 NOTES

Please note that this script will only work reliably when the lock
directory is on a filesystem (and operating system) where you can rely on
L<open(2)> with C<O_EXCL> and L<flock(2)> working properly.  In other
words, don't point the lock directory to a network filesystem (especially
NFS).  Use C<-d> I</some/local/dir>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<lockfile(1)>

=head1 BUGS

The limitations of the locking system (see L<NOTES|"NOTES"> above) could be
construed as bugs.

=head1 AUTHOR

Steven Pritchard E<lt>F<steve@silug.org>E<gt>

